Tkispell Version 0.16

Tkispell is a GUI interface to the GNU ispell program written
using Perl and the Perl/Tk GUI widget libraries.


INSTALLATION

First make sure that GNU ispell is installed and works correctly on
your system.  You can't install or use tkispell otherwise.  Period.
Ispell is at: ftp://ftp.gnu.org/ispell/, or in package format for many
unices.  Make sure that it is working correctly by spell checking a
file using the command line interface.

Then, follow the normal installation for Perl modules.

    $ perl Makefile.PL
    $ make
    $ su
    # make install

There are a few options at the start of the tkispell script
that you can edit, namely, the X11 font (which must be
a X Logical Font Descriptor.  Refer to the xlsfonts man page
for an explanation), and the name of your personal dictionary.

USAGE 

tkispell accepts one optional command line argument: the name of the
file to be checked.  If you do not provide the name of the file on the
command line, you can open a file by clicking on the Browse... button
and selecting a file in the file selection widget.

Clicking on the "Check" button starts the spell check.  You'll see the
first misspelled word selected in the text box near the top of the
window, and the misspelled word entered in the entry box near the 
lower right of the window.  If ispell can guess at any replacement
words, those are listed on the left side of the window.  

The four buttons on the right side of the window provide the
actions that you can take for each misspelled word: 

- Accept: Don't change the word and move to the next misspelled
  word.
- Add: Add the misspelled word to your personal dictionary.
- Replace: Replace this instance of the misspelled word with 
  the correct word in the Entry box.
- Replace All:  Replace all instances of the misspelled word 
  with the corrected word in the entry box.

You can end the spell check at any point by clicking on the 
"Close" button.  Tkispell will ask you if you want to save the
spell checked file, renaming the original file with a ".bak"
extension if you click on "Ok" in the dialog box.  Then tkispell
will ask if you want to add the corrected words to your personal
dictionary.  Click on "Ok" or "Cancel."


TROUBLESHOOTING

If tkispell prints an error message like:

  tkispell: file not found

edit the first line of 'tkispell with the path name of the system's
perl binary, normally /usr/bin/perl or /usr/local/bin/perl.  If perl
isn't in either place, try using the output of "which perl."

Tkispell is licensed under the same terms as Perl.  Please
refer to the file "Artistic."  